 spring boot starters -
    spring boot offers many started modules to getting started quickly with many commonly used technooogy like spring , jpa , mongoldb  , spraying batch , sprint security, elastic search etc. so these starters are already configured with most of the commmonly used library dependencxies so we dont have to search for compatibility library cersion nd configure them manually . So this spring boot starters will take care of all that . example - spring-boot - starter-data-jpa dependency whenever we add in our spring boot application then it will include all the dependencies required to use pink data jpa along with hibernate library dependency . hibernte is one of the most used jp implementations so spring data jp internal uses hibernate a jb provider  . another example is spring-boot-starter-web dependency so whenever we add spring boot strter web dependency it will by default pull all the commonly used librries while developing spring average application such as spring muc, webmuc , jackson json library validation api and tomcat 
spring boot auto configuration -
    spring boot auro configuration attempts to automatically configure your spring application based on the jar dependiceies that you have added ,
    Why do we need spring boot auto configuration ? spring based application have a lot of configurations. when we use spring mvc , we need to configure component scan , dospatcher servlet , vier solver , web jars among other things . when we use hibernate we would need to configure a data source , enitity manager factory / session factory , transaction manager among a host of other things 
    above examples aer typical with any spring framework implementations or integration with other frameworks
externalized configuration -
    this feature is very useful whenever u want to deploy your spring application in different environents so basically enables developer to work with the same applications in diffrent environments .
spring boot actuator - 
    this is one of my favourite feature . so in our spring boot applicatio nwe configure a lot of details and we need to moniture all these , so this provides of rest endpoints to view the health check matrics . it view the application bean configuration details , view the application URL mappings , vview environment details , view configurtion parmenter values , ciew the registerd health check metrics . 
easy to use embedded servelet container support -
    when we build via spring framework then we need to deploy our web application in external tomcat server . springboot bydefault provides tomcat server as a default amateur servlet container and whenever we use bing boot starter web dependncy then it will automaticlly include tomcast as an embedded servlet container so whenever we run our spring boot applciation as a standalone it wil run in a default embedded tomcat server on port 8080 